Now let's do a coding assignment along with the Rollerball sample.
So here I am in an empty project where I brought in the mini MVCs framework, as well as the samples.
I'll open up the Rollerball sample with Mini and think about what I could do here as a coding assignment.
Something I thought would be interesting is that while you can currently use the arrow keys to move
around, we could have spacebar represent a jump.
So let's think about how we would do that.
Well, taking in keyboard input is something we already do, and that's handled by the input view.
So let's start by looking at the input view and seeing how that's wired up.
So here's the input view class.
We have a custom event here that's going to be broadcast any time movement is detected from the Arrow
Keys, the input view class itself, since it sits on a game object in the scene, it's a mono behavior.
And skipping down here to the highlight in the update we do capturing some of the keys and passing that
out as input.
Notice here, the way that this is structured is that input is passed every single update, regardless
if the user is hitting a key or not.
And as per typical unity convention for arrow keys for movement, that's fine.
One option I have would be to capture the spacebar being hit and always pass it in perhaps as a second
parameter here to on input.
But just based on my intuition, I don't like the idea of every frame passing false when the spacebar
is not yet hit.
So instead what I'll do is I'll create a new event that happens only when spacebar is hit.
So let's take a look at how I would do that.
Well, first thing, to be able to get the key of spacebar, we'll do it down here.
We get the key down for the key code of spacebar.
And only if that's the case will we send a new event called on Jump.
So by placing this an update, we know it's going to happen every frame, which is great.
And now we just need to wire this up.
So I've added my own unity event here called on Jump because I'm not passing any parameters along.
I'll just use the base unity event as shown here and then let's take a look at what scopes are currently
listening to the existing on input.
Well, I can see here in the controller that we listen and the controller handles it.
I like the idea of the controller also handling the consequence of jump, so I'll duplicate this code
here and update it.
I see here is the handler for the input.
I'll basically copy that same concept and update it.
So here I've created a new method and all that I need to do is finish this up by making the appropriate
command.
So again, here this is the controller listening to this UI event and translating it into a command
so that like a radio station, any particular concern can tune into this?
I'll create the jump command from scratch to finish this up.
Here's the existing input command that is taking a parameter for a vector three of how much input in
each of the directions.
I don't really need a parameter here, so I can just extend I command instead.
So I've created the new command.
And now let's think who should observe this?
Well, in the case of the input command, it's the player that observes the input command.
And now let's think which concerns should tune in to this?
Well, the input command I know is observed by the player so that it knows how to move.
That sounds like a good fit.
So let's go to the player and subscribe.
So here we are in the player view.
Player views since it sits on a game object in the scene, it extends monarch behavior and down here
in the initialize, it's listening to the input command.
Let's duplicate that.
So now we're listening to the jump command.
Let's handle the consequence.
There we see how input command is set up and then calls the appropriate physics.
So I created a handler for the jump command.
Now I just need to think about the physics.
If I add a force upwards at the moment jump is pressed, that should handle it.
First, I have to remember to pass in the jump command as required, even though I don't need any parameters
from that command.
This is required convention with the typical setup of a unity scene.
It's the Y component that is upwards.
So if I apply a force here that is upwards in the Y, we should be able to get the jumping result we
want.
Let's play the scene and check it out.
Here's the scene playing using the arrow keys as before.
And now I'll try the spacebar.
Here's the game running.
I'll use the arrow keys as we have been before, and I'll try out.
The new spacebar seems to work great.
Now, in the context of this game, we don't have any enemies or obstacles to avoid, so that would
be something great to add.
Next, new gameplay mechanics that make sense now that we have the ability to jump.
But that's it now for this coding assignment.
Thanks.